<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
    <meta name="GENERATOR" content="LyX 2.1.4"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8"/>
    <title>Qoan Manifesto</title>
    <style type='text/css'>
/* Layout-provided Styles */
dfn.lyxnoun {
  font-variant: small-caps;
}
h1.title {
font-size: x-large;
margin-bottom: 1ex;
text-align: center;

}
div.address {
margin-bottom: 1.5ex;
text-align: left;

}
h2.section {
font-weight: bold;
font-size: x-large;
margin-top: 1.3ex;
margin-bottom: 0.7ex;
text-align: left;

}
div.standard {
margin-bottom: 2ex;
text-align: justify;
}
h3.subsection {
font-weight: bold;
font-size: large;
margin-top: 0.9ex;
margin-bottom: 0.5ex;
text-align: left;

}
div.bibliography {
margin-left: 2em;
text-indent: -2em;
}
span.bibitemlabel:before { content: "["; }
span.bibitemlabel:after { content: "] "; }

    </style>
</head>
<body>
<h1 class="title"><a id='magicparlabel-1'/>Qoan Manifesto</h1>

<h2 class="section"><a id='magicparlabel-3'/><span class="section_label">1</span> What is Qoan?</h2>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-4'/>Qoan in its most basic is an open-source information management system
    which is designed to deal with large data exploiting distributed resource storage and processing strategies. It is
    our belief, distributed computing is the only feasible way for dealing with large data.
</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-5'/>In order to expand on this, the relationships between individual bits of
    data will also be taken into account, in order to represent it in a mathematical graph model. This will allow for
    organizing data, as well as ranking them in their degrees of importance. In Qoan graph algorithms will find other
    usages as well.
</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-6'/>Furthermore, vast amounts of data make very good source as training data
    for artifical neural networks. Neural networks are widely used in different fields of artificial intelligence and
    have also common applications. With the help of ranking, very specialized neural networks can be trained to improve
    their performance in problem specific applications.
</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-7'/>It must also be stressed, that usage of specialized networks and graphs
    only, makes the problem of computational feasibility solvable. The whole network is out of reach, parts of it is
    doable.
</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-8'/>Qoan is therefore a framework, where you can make use of data available
    in Wikipedia for training neural networks, or exploiting in the same manner biochemical data in online gene
    databases to create biochemical reaction networks, or making use of online stock quotes to create predictive models
    of the current market.
</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-9'/>In order to demonstrate how this can be useful, we have designed four
    <em>homework assignments</em> where these possibilities will be explored. These are picked out of publications and
    applications from the fields of finance, network and graph theories, artificial neural networks, machine
    translation, computational linguistics and biochemistry. With each homework assignment, we will expand on those
    works publishing our results, while implementing these as new features in Qoan. With each completed homework
    assignment, Qoan will have additional features which we hope will be useful for routine tasks as well.
</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-10'/>In realization of the software Java language was chosen, as it is very
    commonly used in all of the worlds we want to bring together, making it also a language of choice for the existing
    excellent open-source projects, which we make abundant use of. The web-interface which is the Qoan project, has been
    implemented with Vaadin, which allows for a modern web-application and all the visual goodies we are used to and
    fond of. This is a simple web-application which commands and visualizes the computing grid and the data stored
    there.
</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-11'/>On the backend, Qai project, is designed to make available all different
    types of networks, their mathematical representations and data processing, in a distributed computing environment.
    The distributed data storage and computing capabilities are thanks to Hazelcast platform. Graph algorithms are
    carried out by <dfn class='lyxnoun'>Grph</dfn> and as an implementation of artificial neural network algorithms <dfn
            class='lyxnoun'>Encog</dfn> was picked. These are excellent libraries which offer many more uses of both
    graph theory and neural-networks, with which we want to encourage developers who want to develop their own
    applications easily using those.
</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-12'/>In order to index Wikipedia data and other resources Apache Lucene is
    employed, as well as Tika, Apache OpenNLP, BlikiWiki and, last but not least, Apache-Jena for usage of semantic-nets
    and <dfn class='lyxnoun'>Sparql</dfn> queries.
</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-13'/>Qoan stores data distributed on different nodes as files, as well as in
    relational databases, like MySQL and/or in <dfn class='lyxnoun'>Sparql</dfn> capable datastores, like OpenLink
    Virtuoso, whichever is convenient. The current configuration makes use of all of those, but this is merely for
    testing purposes. Depending on needs of the system the whole data can be stored with just one or in any combination
    of those.
</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-14'/>The demo-system, Qoan.org, currently is only meant to give you an idea
    how the user-interface looks, without any of the homework assignments actually functioning. With the support we
    raise, we will be able to work out our homework assignments and present our results to you, as well as a functional
    open-source framework for distributed artificial intelligence.
</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-15'/>Qoan.org is currently running on a collection of computers consisting
    only of Raspberry PI boxes, in order to demonstrate that this can also be done, a proof of concept grid. With this,
    we want to make grid computing available to a wider spectrum of users and to make usage of artificial intelligence
    more widespread.
</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-16'/>We are painfully aware, many wonderful applications of these
    technologies are not being adressed with the given set of features we have chosen. But we hope to hear from you
    about your ideas and wishes, where the future development should head to and which features be added.
</div>
<h2 class="section"><a id='magicparlabel-17'/><span class="section_label">2</span> Homework Assignments</h2>
<h3 class="subsection"><a id='magicparlabel-18'/><span class="subsection_label">2.1</span> How fair are the markets?
</h3>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-19'/>With this homework assignment we wish to discuss a model of stock
    markets and analyse the resulting relationships which give insight about the market. In their work Borysov et.al[<a
            href='#LyXCite-key_3'><span class="bib-numericallabel">7</span></a>] have shown, with a certain
    neural-network architecture, stock data can be used for training an interaction network of the stock markets which
    can be interpreted as a quantifier of the relationships between stocks.
</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-20'/>At this point, we turn to the work of Venkatasubramanian et.al[<a
        href='#LyXCite-key_4'><span class="bib-numericallabel">1</span></a>] and take their interpretation of entropy
    from game theory and micro-market simulations point of view.
</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-21'/>Using these tools together, we are expecting to show that market data
    can be divided into different episodes where these differ significantly in both their entropy values and how the
    relationships between companies are. As well as the toolkit in Qoan for doing it yourself too, obviously.
</div>
<h3 class="subsection"><a id='magicparlabel-22'/><span class="subsection_label">2.2</span> Machine-translation as
    shortest-path problem</h3>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-23'/>Google's automatic translator is an excellent example of a
    neural-network which has been trained with data out of two different languages to convert one sentence into the
    other language. When a sentence is represented in its semantic-network form, we end up with a path in a graph.
    Wiktionary entries have word translations into most other languages, therefore switching the nodes in the path of
    the origin sentence to represent words in target language, and finding the shortest-path in the target
    semantic-network which contain these words, will sum up to translating the text.
</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-24'/>Since Google's neural networks doing the translations are designed to be
    as general as possible to address unspecified needs, the results can sometimes get disappointing. We want to
    demonstrate that this can of course be compensated if specialized networks on specific topics could be trained and
    applied in a particular field.
</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-25'/>Upon completion of this homework assignment, you will be able to
    translate text using expert networks which are trained with the specific needs of your field. Our work will be based
    on works of Bahdanau et.al.[<a href='#LyXCite-key_6'><span class="bib-numericallabel">3</span></a>] and Sutskver
    et.al.[<a href='#LyXCite-key_7'><span class="bib-numericallabel">4</span></a>].
</div>
<h3 class="subsection"><a id='magicparlabel-26'/><span class="subsection_label">2.3</span> You and me and everyone we
    know</h3>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-27'/>It has already been pointed that Wikipedia data can be used for ranking
    purposes as well[<a href='#LyXCite-key_8'><span class="bib-numericallabel">5</span></a>, <a
            href='#LyXCite-key_9'><span class="bib-numericallabel">6</span></a>]. Therefore if you were suddenly taken
    with the question <em>&ldquo;Just how important is Kilgore Trout really?&rdquo;</em>, this example is for you.
    Wikipedia, not only has information about him, but also many references in different articles, which makes it
    possible to make a ranking of all persons, real or fictionary, with help of a simple query. This will be possible,
    thanks to ontology developed by <dfn class='lyxnoun'>DBpedia</dfn> project.
</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-28'/>But this is not the only data this homework assignment will be arranging
    in form of graphs, also biochemical and genetical databases will be included so that molecules and genes can be
    ranked as well. These graphs will be particularly useful later in fourth homework assignment, which is also the
    reason why we chose this assignment.
</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-29'/>And who knows we might indeed be surprised to find out just how
    important Kilgore Trout actually is.
</div>
<h3 class="subsection"><a id='magicparlabel-30'/><span class="subsection_label">2.4</span> Towards the virtual-cell</h3>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-31'/>When it comes to large networks, with twenty-thousand or so genes and
    biochemicals in humans, chemical reaction networks, as they are found in living organisms, are certainly among the
    most complex. Researchers of many different fields are constantly looking just for one reaction, which could be the
    cure for cancer, or be the next large step in malaria treatment. Predictive searches using computer simulations have
    been developed constantly in order to aid this search undertaking.
</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-32'/>With this homework assignment, we want to address this problem.
    Employing machine learning approach we will be developing on the work of Brockherde et.al[<a
            href='#LyXCite-key_5'><span class="bib-numericallabel">2</span></a>].
</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-33'/>Upon completion of this homework assignment, with the help of Qoan,
    neural networks will be trained with online data in order to run molecular dynamics simulations of biochemical
    reactions, which can predict other reactions. These neural networks can then be used for searching reactions and
    running their simulations.
</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-34'/>The wonderful visualizations which you will find on the demo system, are
    thanks to NGLViewer project.
</div>
<h2 class='bibliography'>References</h2>

<div class='bibliography'>
    <div class="bibliography"><a id='magicparlabel-35'/><a id='LyXCite-key_4'/>
        <span class='bibitemlabel'>1</span><em>”How much inequality in income is fair? A microeconomic game theoretic
            perspective”</em>, Venkatasubramanian V., Luo Y., Sethuraman J., Physica A-435 (2015) 120-138.
    </div>

    <div class="bibliography"><a id='magicparlabel-36'/><a id='LyXCite-key_5'/>
        <span class='bibitemlabel'>2</span><em>&rdquo;Bypassing the Kohn-Sham equations with machine
            learning&rdquo;</em>, Brockherde F., Vogt L., Li L., Tuckerman M.E., Burke K., Müller K., Nature
        Communications DOI: 10.1038/s41467-017-0089-3
    </div>

    <div class="bibliography"><a id='magicparlabel-37'/><a id='LyXCite-key_6'/>
        <span class='bibitemlabel'>3</span><em>&rdquo;Neural Machine Translation by jointly learning to align and
            translate&rdquo;</em>, Bahdanau D., Cho KH., Bengio Y., arXiv:1409.0473v7 [cs.CL] 19 May 2016
    </div>

    <div class="bibliography"><a id='magicparlabel-38'/><a id='LyXCite-key_7'/>
        <span class='bibitemlabel'>4</span><em>&rdquo;Generating Text with Recurrent Neural Networks&rdquo;</em>,
        Sutskever I., Martens J., Hinton G., Proceedings of the 28 th International Conference on Machine Learning,
        Bellevue, WA, USA, 2011.
    </div>

    <div class="bibliography"><a id='magicparlabel-39'/><a id='LyXCite-key_8'/>
        <span class='bibitemlabel'>5</span><em>&rdquo;Wikipedia Ranking of World Universities&rdquo;</em>, Lages J.,
        Patt A., Shepelyansky D.L., arXiv:1511.09021v2 [cs-SI] 4 Feb 2016
    </div>

    <div class="bibliography"><a id='magicparlabel-40'/><a id='LyXCite-key_9'/>
        <span class='bibitemlabel'>6</span><em>&rdquo;Time evolution of Wikipedia network ranking&rdquo;</em>, Eom YH.,
        Frahm K.M., Benczúr A., Shepelyansky D.L., arXiv:1304.6601v2 [physics.soc-ph] 31 Oct 2013
    </div>

    <div class="bibliography"><a id='magicparlabel-41'/><a id='LyXCite-key_3'/>
        <span class='bibitemlabel'>7</span><em>“US stock market interaction network as learned by the Boltzmann
            Machine”</em>, Borysov S.S., Roudi Y., Balatsky A.V., arXiv:1504.02280v1 [q-fin.ST] 9 Apr 2015
    </div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
